.Dd August 4, 2014
.Dt ARGONAUT 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm argonaut
.Nd graphical, spatial directory navigator
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm argonaut
.Op DIR
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility shows the files in the given directory in a GUI window.
This window is always shown in the same position, of the same size, and exactly
once.
The files shown in the window have actions that can be applied to them; these
are found in a menu, which is always displayed.
Opening a directory from within
.Nm
will open that directory in its own window, as if you ran
.Nm
passing the new directory as an argument.
.Ss Keyboard Shortcuts
In the following descriptions, ^X means control-X.
.Bl -tag -width XXXX
.It Ic ENTER
Open the file or directory.
Directores open in
.Nm argonaut .
.It Ic ^W
Close the current working directory.
.El
.
.Ss Mouse Shortcuts
.Bl -tag -width XXXX
.It left click on icon
Select the icon.
.It left double click on icon
Open the file or directory.
Directores open in
.Nm argonaut .
.It left click on empty area
Deselect all icons.
.It left click and drag
Select all icons within drag rectangle.
.It middle click on icon
Open the file or directory; directores open in
.Nm argonaut .
Once the new file or directory is open, the current working directory will
close.
.El
.
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.
This program makes use of the GTK+ library, which in turn supports many
environment variables.  Since we do not control these environment variables we
instead suggest you look in the
.Lk https://developer.gnome.org/gtk3/stable/gtk-running.html GTK documentation .
.
.Pp
The
.Li .desktop
file that is installed takes advantage of the XDG environment variables, which
you can read more about in the
.Lk http://standards.freedesktop.org/basedir-spec/latest/ar01s03.html XDG Base Directory Specification .
.
.Sh FILES
.
.Bl -tag -width "~/.argonautinfo" -compact
.It Pa ~/.argonautinfo
The database of window geometries, stored in Berkelee DB format.
.El
.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
The
.Nm
utility exits 0 on success and >0 if an error occurs.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.
To open your home directory, pass no arguments:
.Pp
.Dl argonaut
.Pp
Passing a directory name as an argument will open that directory:
.Pp
.Dl argonaut /etc
.Pp
Directories can be relative:
.Pp
.Dl argonaut bin/
.
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Bl -diag
.It argonaut: could not create the db
The
.Pa .argonautinfo
database could not be opened or operated on.
Check the file's permissions and, failing that, move the file away.
.It argonaut: could not open the db
The
.Pa .argonautinfo
database is corrupted.
This database uses the Berkelee DB format.
Use BDB tools such as
.Xr db_recover 1
to attempt a recovery, or move the file away.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr nautilus 1 ,
.Xr caja 1
.Sh STANDARDS
This implements the
.Lk http://standards.freedesktop.org/desktop-entry-spec/desktop-entry-spec-1.1.html Desktop Entry Specification 1.1
with categories from the
.Lk http://standards.freedesktop.org/menu-spec/menu-spec-1.1.html Desktop Menu Specification 1.1 .
.\" http://standards.freedesktop.org/thumbnail-spec/
.\" http://standards.freedesktop.org/startup-notification-spec/
.\" http://standards.freedesktop.org/shared-mime-info-spec/
.\" http://standards.freedesktop.org/mime-apps-spec/
.\" http://standards.freedesktop.org/icon-theme-spec/
.\" http://standards.freedesktop.org/icon-naming-spec/
.\" http://standards.freedesktop.org/basedir-spec/ ?
.\" http://standards.freedesktop.org/autostart-spec/
.Sh HISTORY
.
This idea is based on Finder from MacOS 9 but most heavily inspired by Nautilus
from GNOME 2.
.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -split
.An "Mike Burns" Aq Mt mike@mike-burns.com
.An "Matt Horan" Aq Mt matt@matthoran.com
.\" .Sh CAVEATS
.\" .Sh BUGS
